my name is Lisa comfort from so over it
and I'm going to show you how to stitch
a dart this is a bus dart in our
ultimate shift dress pattern so to sew a
dart we're going to need our pins I'm
going to use an error raisable pan you
could also use tailors chalk and a ruler
so I've marked already the dark through
the fabric so I've got my notches at the
edge marking the edge of the dart and
the point of the dart I marked with a
pen through the pattern and then used a
pin to get that through to the other
side of the garment as well so taking
your dart just you want to fold it right
sides together lining the notches and
pop a pin in there and also put a pin in
at the point of the dart
folding the fabric on that point so now
that we've got those two points pinned
we need to give ourselves a nice stitch
guideline to follow so I'm going to use
the pen and ruler and starting at the
edge and going towards the point I'm
going to draw myself a nice line so that
I've got a good stitch guideline and
it's important to pull the pins out if
they're in the way so you can get the
ruler nice and flat when you lift off
the ruler just be careful you're not
moving the fabric at all and you'll need
to pop some more pins in there just to
hold your dart in place okay we're going
to start sewing from the top of the dart
from the edge of the fabric and we'll do
our normal reverse stitch so we're going
to go forwards and backwards and then
we're going to continue down the dart
lining up the pen line with the middle
of the presser foot I'm feeding that
through there as you get to them take
the pins out and then when you get to
the end you just want to stitch off the
end and leave yourself a nice length of
thread
and then you take those two ends of
threads and you tie them in a double
knot and this is the only time in sewing
or one of the rare times and sewing when
we don't reverse and the reason why we
don't reverse is because it can make it
bulky at that point and you want that
point to be really fine so it just
disappears into nothing next we need to
give that a lovely press so when you're
at the ironing board make sure that
you've got your garment nice and flat on
the ironing board and you're pulling it
as flat as it will go
as a rule darts generally go down
towards the hem or if they're vertical
darts you want to iron them towards the
back of the garment so we're going to
iron this all the way down just be nice
and gentle getting that nice and flat
and then turn it over and from the right
side you also want to iron but you need
to be careful that you don't iron over
the bottom of the dark because that can
create a rich in your garment so we're
just going to gently push the iron over
the stitch line and right into the point
if you can and that will give your dart
a nice crisp finished more professional
look and there you have it a neat
accurate birth dot
you